>what is scope?

Scope is defined as the extend to which something can be used.
In programming to the scope of a variabl is defined ast he extend to
which the the varible can be acessed , declared or work with.

>Local scope vs Gobal scope ?

variables defined within a fn or block are said to be local to those fns
and cant be acessed outside the block.

global variables can be acessed at any part of the program.


>what is namespace ?

declarative region that provides scope to identifiers.

>what are preprocessors ?

it is an instruction to compiler to load before the compilation

>what are macros ?

a piece of code is replaced by the value of macros

>what is inline fn ?

is a fn that expands inline when it is called . 
When inline fn is called the whole code get inserted at the point of fn call.
it is fast beacause it doesnt have the overhead of storing address next line details to switch.

>ref vs pointers ?

pointer is a variable that holds the memory address of another variable.
int *p = &a;
refers is an alias to an existing variable. 
int &ref = a; 

>switch vs if ?

expression based on range of values - ifelse
large group of values  - switch is effiecient.

>what are datatypes ?

each data requires specific amount of memory and specific operations
to be performed over it.

>what are enums ?

Enumeration (or enum) is a user defined data type in C. It is mainly used to assign names to integral constants

>what are datastructures ?

datastructure is a particular way of organising data , so it can be used effieicently.

>declaration vs definition ?

declaration of a variable or fn is informing the compiler the name and type of variable/fn.
defintion says where the variable get stored. i,e memory is allocated.

>size of class is 1 atlesat , static members are not included in size.

>Storage classes ?

auto
extern
static
register



NP VS P 

NP problems are those problems which can be made to polynomial timecomplexity Non determinsitically.

NPhard Vs NPComplete

A problem X is Np hard if there is an Np complete problem Y which can be reduced to X.
A problem X is np complete when a problem Y NP problem which can be reuced to X in polynomial time
