what is os ?
is basically a software program that manages and handles 
all resources of computer softwarea nd hardware 

fns of OS ?

Memory and Processor Management
Providing user interface to users
Scheduling of resources and jobs
File Management and Device Management
Error Detection
Security


kernal ?
he kernel is basically a computer program usually considered as a central component  of OS
It is generally responsible for converting user commands into machine-level commands.
there by responsible for managing all computer resources such as CPU, memory, files, processes, etc.


What is a process ? vs program

A process is a program that is currently under execution. The main fn
of OS is to manage and handle all of these processes. eg : web browser
a process can be divided into four parts 
stack - temparary data , parameter , fn pointer , return address 
heap - dynamic data 
data - global and static values 
text - value of pc , register

program is a collection of instructions that can be executed to perform a task.


what are states of a process ?

new - process is just created.
ready - the process has all the resources available to run but wait ti get assigned a processor
running - cpu start executing process's instructions
waiting - process cant run as it is waiting for some event to happen.
terminate - process is completed or finished execution.

what is process table ?

To keep track of the state of a process the OS keeps track of a table known as process table.
In the table every process is listed with the resources they are using and the current state of
the process. 
Process control block is data structure that os maintain to keep track of evry process
and the uniquely identified by the process id (pid) 

TERMINOLOGY ALERTS :

Multiprogramming : when two or more program reside in memory at the same time is called 
multiprogramming , itincreases cpu utilisation as cpu always have somrthing to execute.

Multitasking : when multiple jobs are executed by the cpu simultaneously by context-switching b/w 
them. Switches occurs so frequently that user may intereact with each program while it is running.

Context-Switching : It is a mechanism to store and restore the state of cpu in pcb
so that execution can be resumed from the same point at a later time.

Long term scheduler: regulates the processes which are selected for processing.
programs are setuped in a queue (New->Ready). The primary objective is to produce
a balanced mix of jobs. it is responsible for more degree of multiprogramming. (slow)

short term scheduler : increase the cpu performance in accordance with 
the chosen set of criteria.(Ready->Running)

mid term scheduler : it removes the program from the memory.


What are scheduling algorithms ?

is a process that is used to improve efficiency by utilising maximum CPU and minimising
waiting time of tasks. It simply deals with which requests should be resources alocated 
it resuces the reource starvation.

Different Types of scheduling algorithms?

firstcome firstserve:
Shortest job first:
shortest remaining time:preempted by a newer ready job with shorter time to completion.
Round robin:Each process is provided a fix time to execute, it is called a quantum.
priority scheduling: executed based on priority , same priority in first come first serve.
Multilevel Queue:
Multiple queues are maintained for processes with common characteristics.
Each queue can have its own scheduling algorithms.
Priorities are assigned to each queue.

what is Thread ?

Smallest unit of processing , light weight sub process.
They are popular ways to improve application by parellism
They have their own programcouter(pc) register set and a stack space. But they share code and data section.
it reduces the time required for context switching.

Process VS thread ?

Process

These are heavy-weight operations.
system call involved 
os treat different process differetly
different copies of data
context switching is slow
block a process dont block other
independent

what is process synchronisation ?

is a technique to coordinate processes that use shared resources or data.
it is very essential to coordinate cooperating proceses to maintain data consistency
it main purpose is to share resource without any interfereance using mutual exclusion.

Rules of synchronisation ?

mutual exclusion
progress
bounded wait

what do you mean by semaphore ?

it is a signeling mechanism. it holds one positive interger value , it is used to solve
the issue of critical sections in synchronisation process by two operations.
wait()down and signal () 
it locks the resource.
its value indicates the current status of shred variable.



Types of Semophore ?

binary semaphore                 mutex

based on signelling mechanism    locking mechanism
faster                           slower
integer                          object


Semaphore implementation ?

sem_t mutex;

sem_intit(&mutex);

sem_wait(&mutex)
sem_post(&mutex)

sem_destroy(&mutex);


TERMINOLOGY ALERTS :

Starvation: It is generally a problem that usually occurs when a process has not been able to get the required resources 
it needs for progress with its execution for a long period of time.
In this condition, low priority processes get blocked and only high priority processes proceed towards completion 
because of which low priority processes suffer from lack of resources. 

Aging: It is a technique that is used to overcome the situation or problem of starvation. 
It simply increases the priority of processes that wait in the system for resources for a long period of time. 


what is deadlock ?

is a situation where two or more processes wait for each other to finish 
and none of them ever finish.When two or more process hold some resources 
and wait for resources held by other.

conditions for deadlock :
mutual exclusion - there is some resources that cant be shared.
hold and wait.
non-preemption
circular wait.


primary memory vs secondary memory ?

directly accesbile             first , needed to transfer to prmary memory 
by processing unit

temporay and costly            permamanat & cheap


External vs Internal fragmentation ?

memory - continous process
       - non continous (paging)

Extrenal fragmentation: happens when there’s a sufficient memory to satisfy the memory request of a method
but it is spread non continuosuly.

Internal Fragmentation:  memory is split into fixed sized blocks. Whenever a request for the memory,
the fixed sized block is allotted to the method. 
however in some case the memory allotted is more than the memory requested


Virtual memory ?

It is a memory management technique feature that creates the illusion of very large main memory
The idea of vm is to use disk space to extend the Ram. Running process doesnot need to care whether
the memory is from RAM or disk.it is achieved by subdiving the virtual memory into smaller pieces 
and loaded into memory whenver required.

Translation lookaside buffer (TLB)
Page table

paging vs segmentation ?

paging -- divide the process into equal size pages and put in MM.(faster)(frames)
segmentation - divide the process in users point of view of different sizes.(Holes)

what is thrashing ?

situation when the performance of a computer degrades or collapses.
we brought lots of pages into MM but not the ones CPU needs.
it occurs when system spends more time processing pagefaults than executing transactions.



Page replacement algorithms ?

First In First Out (FIFO) 
Optimal Page replacement –In this algorithm, pages are replaced which would not be used 
for the longest duration of time in the future.
Least Recently Used –
In this algorithm page will be replaced which is least recently used.


Beladys Anomaly ?

Belady’s Anomaly is a phenomenon in which if we increase the number of frames in memory,
then the number of page faults also increases