What is a network ?

Network is an interconnected group of devices that allow sharing of data.

What is Internet ?

it is Network of networks.

What is topology ?

Network topology specifies the layout of network ,
how devices are connected to each other.

What are Nodes and Links ?

Any communicaing devoce in a network is node , it can send/reieve information in network.
Link is the connectivity between nodes in the network , it maybe wired or wireless.

Explain different type of Network ?

LAN - Is a collection of devies connected together in one physical location eg home/office.(wired/wireless)
MAN - It connects and covers the whole city eg : cable connection
WAN - It spans a geographical are , often country or continent

Explain OSI model ?

Open system Interconnections(OSI) is a network architeture model , it deals with connecting devices
that are open for communication with othe system.
7 layers :
application
presentation -data compression and encryption
session      - maintains the sessions b/w users.
*transport 
network 
datalink 
physical - communication channel . transmission modes -simple .half/fullduplex 

router/switch/hub/repeater ?

Explain TCP/IP model ?

It is a compressed version of OSI . It contains 4 levels.
1) application layer -  HTTP/SMTP/RTP/DNS
2) Transport layer   -  TCP/UDP
3) Internet layer    -  IP/ICMP/ARP(address resolution protocol -conver ip to mac)
4) Link layer        -  DSL/SONET/ETHERNET

Differntiate TCP/IP vs OSI models ?

4 layers                :     7 layers
More relaible           :     less relaible
horizontal approach     :     vertical approach
transport layer doesnot :     delivery is assured
provide assurance of 
delivery of packets
more flexible with      :     hard to change protocols.
protocols

Data link layer ?

it is resposible for moving of data in and out of physical link of network.
It takes the packets from the network layer and converts into frames (flag header payload tail flag)

It handle Flow control, the Protocols are:
1) stop & wait : only 1 frame transmitted , 1 frame retranmistted in case of error
2) Go back N   : N frames and N frames retransmitted one by one ( coz reciever window size is 1)
3) selective repeat : N frames and N frames retransmitted.

It handles bit transmission errors by crc and other methods.

it handles actual control of media (MAC):
pure aloha : sents data whever node want to
slotted aloha : sents data at the start of a slot
Csma 
1-persistent: sent data if channel is free , if collision occur wait a random time.
non persistent: if channel is busy wait a random amount of time
p persistant : if channel is busy ,wait untill next slot 


Network Layer ?

Network layer is responsible for routing packets(datgram for udp) from source address 
to destination address.
many networks are partitioned in subnets , devices like router operate 
in this layer to forward packets between subnets and diff networks.

Major Routing algorithms are :
Flooding - sent packetsin all outgoing lines except the arrived line.
Distance vector - each router maintains a table and distance to neighbours and shortest distance 
is found out using dij algo
    counting to inf prob : c->a->b->internet . c->a->b internet , a will say to b that i can connect 
    to internet but actually a is connected to internet via b but a dont know that and come to help b .
Link state - Link state routing is a technique in which each router shares the knowledge of 
its neighborhood with every other router in the internetwork.

IP protocol : responsible for transferring of packets from source to host by looking ip adresses
two types - ipv4(32 bit ip adresses) and ipv6(48 bit ip adresses)

classful adressing :
please look at image (imp)
subnetting describe in my own words.

disadvantages :wastage of address- class C only 254 hosts is too small 
               whereas class B 65000 is too large
classless addresing - 192.168.1.1/28 first find mask by putiing 28 1s and rest zero
                      bit AND mask with given ip to find out network.


fragmentation - breaking down of pakets(data + header) to fit the reciever's window size.




Transport Layer ?

end to end communtication (port to port).

Tcp provide relaible and error free communication b/w end systems.
it perform segmentation and sequencing. it has acknowledgment feature and control the Flow


TCP                            vs                UDP

Connection Oriented                        connectionless
more relaible                              less relaible
slower transmission                        faster transmission.
packets order can be preserved             packets are independent of each other
use three handshake model for connection   No handshake
heavy weight                               less weight
Protocols like HTTP/SMTP                   protocols like DNS

NB: three way handshake (SYN, SYN+ACK , ACK). 
Detailed tcp connection establish and termination pictures in IMAGES


Application layer ?


HTTP/HTTPS : is used by the world wide web to manage communication b/w webbrowsers and servers.
HTTPS = HTTP(Hyper text transfer protocol )+SSL(secure socket layer)
it uses port 80 by default.

SMTP - simple mail transfer protocol, it sets rule for communication via email.
port 25.

DNS - Domain name system. It is a decentralised and hierarchiacal naming for devices.
UDP


Firewall and VPN ?

firewall : network security system that monitors the incomming and outgoing traffic.
it blocks the same based on firewall secuirty policies.
it act as a wall between public network(internet) and private network 


VPN : 


