>what is Machine learning ?

ML is the sience of getting computer learn automatically 
and improve from experince without being explicitly programmed.

>Why ML?

Ml solves realworld problems. Unlike the hardcoding to solve the problem.
ML learns automatically and improves from experince.And these learnings
can be used to predict the required answer.

>What are features and labels ?

Inshort feature is the input (one column of data in input set) and
labels are the output.

>What is EDA ? Exploratory Data Analysis ?

It is the first step of datascience . It is an approach of analyyzing
data sets to summarize their main characterisitics , often using 
statistics and data visuzlisation techniques. It helps to find patterns,
spot anomalies and check our assumptions.

>What are data preprocessing Techniques ?

-Dataset Cleaning (drop nulls & fill missing).
-Feature encoding (categorical : nominal & ordinal)&
 outliear handling - an observation far from other observations
 (box plot , scatter plot)(drop,clip or average).
-Feature scaling (Z score) &
 PCA(principle component analysis) is commonly used for dimensionality reduction
 It measures variation in each feature .if there is littlt variation , it throws 
 the feature out 
 Correlation - is used for measuring and estimating quantitative relationship b/w features.
 It measures how strongly 2 features are related. Covariance is a way to measure correlation.
 
ML Agorthms Broadly classified into supervised , unsupervised , Reinforcement

>What is supervised Learning ?

It is ML algorithm of inferring function (pattern finding) from labeled training data.
Regression-linear Regression
Classification- logistic Regression | Naive bayes | SVM | KNN | Desicion Tree & randm forest 

>Difference between Regression & Classification ?

Classification is used to produce discrete results. 
It is used to classify data into specific categories. EX:spam or not spam.

Whereas Regression Deals with continuous data. EX: stock price at a certain point of time.


>Loss , Cost fns and Linear & logistic regression ? 

Loss is the number indicating how much the the predicted label has deviated from the actual value.
We use gradient descent algorithm to minimize the loss or to find the convergence point.
Most commonly used loss fns are Mean Squred errors (MSE).

Cost funtion is the sum of overall loss.

Linear regression - RMSE (straight line)
Logistic regression - Sigmoid (only binary classification).


>Explain 2x2Confusion matrix , Accuracy, Precision , Recall , F1 in classification ?

confusion matrix :

        True positive  (TP)            False Negative (FN)
        False positive (FP)            True Negative  (TN)

Accuracy : No of correctly predicted / total predicted.
(TP+TN)/(TP+TN+FN+FP)
There is some serious flaws with accuracy , a great accuracy may not mean a good model.
so we came up with other metrics .

precision : out of "predicated" postive class how many are really true.
            (TP)/(TP + FP)
Recall    : out of "Really" Positive class how many are truely predicted.
            (TP)/(TP+FN)
Ex: cancer is malingnant.

---------------------------------------------------------
>ML ALGORITHMS IN DETAIL ?

SVM : 
We are given a set of data and the goal is to seperate into two different classes.
data points are visualised as p dimensional vector and we want to know we can sepearate 
such points with a p-1 dimensionality hypeplane.The best hyperplane that represent
the largest seperarion or margin b/w classes is called support vector classifier.
and support vectors are points of the edges of dividing hyperplane.

KNN : 
an observation is classified according to its K nearest neighbors.

Naive Bayes :
it is a simple classification algorithm based on bayes therom of probabality.
here we assume each feature is independednt of each other.
P(positive)*p(obser/positive) && P(negative)*P(observation/negative)

Decision Tree:


>Explain Hyperparametrs ?

learning rate inmywords is the amount of step taken in a gradient decent.

Batch size : is the no of traning examples per iteration.

Epoch : is the number of times the entire training dataset the ml algorithm has completd.
if batchsize is entire dataset then epoch is equal to no of iterations.

> what is generalization , overfitting ,underfitting , regularization?

generalization: refers to a models ability to adapt to newly unseen data.
Overfitting: Model fitted to training data too well than required
Regularization : means penalizing the complexity of a model to reduce overfitting.
L1 (square of weights + loss) and L2.
underfitting: the model was not able to detect any pattern from the training data.

> bais and vaireance Tradeoff ?

Bias : inability of a model to capture the true relationship. (error in training set).
Vairance: inability of a model to adap to new dataset (error in testing). 
ex : straight line vs squiggly lines.Check image

> Cross Validation ? 

The whole data is split into three parts , training , testing , validation data set.
A model is trained on training data set and is evaluted on validation set , 
this process this repeated till we obtain the best model 
and then it is evaluted on the test data o predict the labels.
check images

>K fold cross validation ?
The data is split into k subsets and model trained on k-1 of those dataset
and tested on last subset and it is repeated for different k-1 subsets
check images 


> what is a ml model ?

A machine learning model is a file that has been trained
to recognize certain types of patterns.

>what is neural network ?

it a series of algorithm that endeavors to recognize underlying 
relationships in a set of data by a process mimicing human brain.
Neurons linked to each other in large numbers.

>activation fn?

activation fn is at the end deciding what is to be fired to the next neuron.
Is short they decide they will decide whether a neuron should be activated or not.

> RELU ?
 
The Rectified Linear Activation fn is a piecewise linear fn that will output the inpput
directly if it is positive else it will output zero.

>softmax vs sigmoid ?

sigmoid is used for binary calssification wheres as softmax is used to calssify into
various categories.

> what is convolution ?

it is a simple mathematical operation , it multiply the image with filters 
to get evident features or feature map.

> maxpooling ?

it is used to downsample an input , deacrease the dimensionality.
and to get a broader feature . usually from a 2*2 pixel in the image/feature map 
maximum pixel value is taken.

